各位同学，老师，大家好，我是路家林，我论文的题目是，A Mixed-Variable Bayesian Optimization Approach for Analog Circuit Synthesis。首先请允许我自我介绍一下，我叫路家林，来自复旦大学，对机器学习和模拟电路自动化感兴趣。我们知道，可以将电路的性能设计抽象为黑盒函数的优化问题，但是在模拟电路的设计中，存在着离散、连续，以及混合的变量优化问题。之前已有通过高斯过程对电路进行建模，使用贝叶斯优化对电路设计进行优化的先例。但是如图所示，传统的贝叶斯有优化算法在处理离散空间上的问题时，会产生优化解与真实极值不匹配，计算冗余等问题。我们通过对高斯过程中的核函数进行修正，使其能够处理离散以及混合空间中的优化问题。可以看到，在这样一个二维的测试函数上，修正后的算法解决了传统的贝叶斯优化算法的缺点。接着我们使用三个真实的模拟电路来对算法进行测试，同时我们会和传统的贝叶斯优化算法，以及遗传进化算法，NSGA-II进行对比。从实验结果可以看出，相较于传统的贝叶斯优化，我们的方法降低了电路仿真所需的次数，相较于遗传进化算法，我们的方法提升了优化的效果。谢谢。

Hi everyone, I am Lu Jialin, and the topic of my thesis is A Mixed-Variable Bayesian Optimization Approach for Analog Circuit Synthesis. First of all, please allow me to introduce myself. My name is Lu Jialin and I am from Fudan University. I am interested in machine learning and analog circuit automation. We know that circuit performance design can be abstracted as a black box function optimization problem, but in the design of analog circuits, there are discrete, continuous, and mixed variable optimization problems. There have been examples for modeling the circuit through the Gaussian process and using Bayesian optimization to optimize the circuit design. However, as shown in the figure, when traditional Bayesian optimization algorithms deal with discrete space problems, problems such as mismatch between the optimized solution and the real optimal value and calculation redundancy will occur. We modify the kernel function in the Gaussian process to enable it to deal with optimization problems in discrete and mixed spaces. It can be seen that on such a two-dimensional test function, the revised algorithm solves the shortcomings of the traditional Bayesian optimization algorithm. Then we use three real analog circuits to test the algorithm, and we will compare it with the traditional Bayesian optimization algorithm, and the genetic evolution algorithm, NSGA-II. It can be seen from the results that compared to traditional Bayesian optimization, our method reduces the number of circuit simulations, and compared to genetic evolution algorithm, our method improves the optimization effect. Thank you.

